AWS troubleshooting solutions:

Topic 1: Network timed out:
RDP/SSH -3389/22

1. port should open in sg inbound rule
2. need to check instance running or not
3. instance status check 2/2 passed
   1/2 - n/w, Antivirus,EBS,NW interface  (solution : stop/start)
   0/2 - need to check with AWS | backend hw issue (Solution : stop/start)
4. need to check instance screenshot
   1. if it shows any BSOD (restore from latest backup)
5. system log from EC2 console
6. cloud trail - for any recent changes
7. any rule place acl ( EC2 - Network - VPC - network acls - inbound rule - this 22 port should allow here)
8. private subnet or public subnet (if subnet connect with igw then its public)
9. VPC has igw or not
10. VPC has rt entries or not
----------------------------------------
Topic 2: AWS application load balancer not working

1. AWS ALB not working
2. clients cannot connect to an internet facing load balancer
3. troubleshooting your ALB

solution:

1. Load balancer backend instances status in service/Helthy
2. if Load balancer backend instances status is out of service/unHelthy
3. 3. instance status check 2/2 passed
   1/2 - n/w, Antivirus,EBS,NW interface  
   0/2 - need to check with AWS | backend hw issue 
4. check SG and ACL for requiredport is opened or not.
   a. check ALB lister port
   b. check innstances sg rules
   c. check lb sg rules
5. check VPC - network ACL port allowed or not
6. Load balancer health check configuration need to be verified
7. Try to restart the application service inside of backend ec2 instances (systemctl restart httpd due to heavy load service may went to hung state)
8. check for the ALB forwarding rulues confugured properly
9. Private vs public subnet
10. vpc had IGW or not
11. cloud trial log for any activity
12. stop /start the ec2 instances

----------------------------------------
Topic 3: VPC peering issues

1. AWS peering issues
2. AWS vpc peering troubleshooting
3. AWS vpc peering not working

1. check the sg in source and destination instances whether required ports are opened or not
2. check the vpc peering status is active or not
3. first check both the instances are connecting indivisually
4. check total no of subnets in source vpc and check its properly associated with route table
5. check total no of subnets in destination vpc and check its properly associated with route table
6. check source vpc rt whether routing for peering is configured with proper CIDR or not
7. check destination vpc rt whether routing for peering is configured with proper CIDR or not
8. Disable the software firewall inside of EC2 instances and check

---------------------------------------------
Topic 4: S3 bucket showing Error access denier

1. S3 bucket showing error acess denied
2. S3 access column shows error for all buckets
3. Troubleshoot erroe in the Access field for buckets

Solution:

1. check the status of all S3 buckets, whether all buckets are showing error or not
2. check IAM role /user has the following permissions

s3:GetAccountPublicAccessBlock
s3:GetBucketPublicAccessBlock
s3:GetBucketPolicyStatus
s3:GetBucketAcl
s3:ListAccessPoints

3. possible login from root user and check the status of error bucket
4. check the bucket have any custom policy in root account (we can define the source ip, to restict the data access)
----------------------------------
Topic 5: AWS Ec2 Auto scalling issues

1. check your scalling policies to see whether an event triggers more than one policy 
(go to EC2>auto scalling groups> your asg(under automatic scalling - dynamic scaling policy)

2. verify if a scale-out policy and scale in policy triggered at the same time
3. check ypur asg already reached max numner of instances
4. check defaulf cooldown period 300s (5 min) and instance warmup period
5. check if there is a lifecycle hook configured for Amzon ec2 auto scalling (to update software like yum install update -y)
6. check is ther any scheduled action configured which conflicting the auto scalling group 
(we can create customised set up for big billoin day like that using scheduled action)
7. check suspended processes for your ASg (go to ec2-asg-advance configurations-suspended process)
suspended process should blank (at maintainess activity we usually use this)

----------------------------------

Topic 6: Lambda issues

1. AWS lambda event based triggered not working

Solution:
1. check the correct AWS event bridge trigger properly configured mapped to the lambda
2. check the correct AWS event bridge trigger properly configured with right JSON
3. when there is a posibility 











