K8-Architectre
-----
control plane/master component
node component

Master:  have kube API server, kube scheduler, kube controll manager, etcd
------------------------------------------------------------------------
1>this is main component.API server responding to all user requests.
it runs on port http 443
 ex: when we execute kubectl get pods that request go to api server and this communicate with k8
 s

2>responsible to schedule the pods. it will check multiple things while scheduling.
like taint, tolerances, affinity, underlying server memory, cpu consumption etc

3>controll manager:
1.replica controller component:>>replicaset>>is one of the component of control manager:if you delete the pod, it will automatically create the pod automatically
2. node controller: checks the nodes all the time, whether they are ready,able to schedule or not.
if any node is down it will make sure another node is created and shifts the pods to different node.
3. Service account controller: creates service account for every namespace created. basically under internal authentication.

4>etcd: 
entire k8s cluster data in etcd. it is very important to take frequent backup.
if cloud, aws team will responsible for this.
 
Node components:
-----------------
1. kubeproxy:-->on behalf of someone> it intercepts evry incoming and outgoing request of node. kube-proxy maintains network rules on nodes.
it runs on evry node.

2 .kubelet-->it works as a agent. it connects nodes to control plane.an agent that runs on each node in the cluster.
it pulls the info from control plane and runs the pods.

3. container runtime: it is on everynods. it basically runs the images into container.
containerd is the runtime usually.

add-ons:
kube-dns:provide dns to the prods. http://backend:8080. kubedns provides ip address to the service when one pod wants to connect with other pod.

networking plugins: VPC CNI(container network interface)default network inside eks.we have multiple nodes and this vpc cni gives the netork to the nodes.




